
\begin{abstract}

In this paper a fast algorithm for computing the capacitance of a
complicated 3-D geometry of ideal conductors in a uniform dielectric
is described and its performance in the capacitance extractor FastCap
is examined.  The algorithm is an acceleration of the boundary-element
technique for solving the integral equation associated with the
multiconductor capacitance extraction problem.  Boundary-element
methods become slow when a large number of elements are used because
they lead to dense matrix problems which are typically solved with
some form of Gaussian elimination.  This implies that the computation
grows as $ n^3 $, where $ n $ is the number of panels or tiles needed
to accurately discretize the conductor surface charges.  In this paper
we present a generalized conjugate residual iterative algorithm with a
multipole approximation to compute the iterates.  This combination
reduces the complexity so that accurate multiconductor capacitance
calculations grow nearly as $ n m $, where $ m $ is the number of
conductors.  Performance comparisons on integrated circuit bus
crossing problems show that for problems with as few as twelve
conductors the multipole accelerated boundary element method can be nearly
500 times faster than Gaussian elimination based algorithms,
and five to ten times faster than the iterative method alone,
depending on required accuracy.

\end{abstract}
